Run FAI From PXE
================

To run FAI from PXE (Preboot Execution Environment), the machine to be
installed needs to be configured to attempt to boot from the network before
booting from local media.  The PXE server needs to have a PXELINUX boot menu
associated with that machine that loads the FAI kernel and initrd with the
appropriate boot parameters.

The easiest way to put that boot menu in place is to use the fai-pxe command.
A typical invocation might be:

$ SERVER-SIDE/bin/fai-pxe -t install bofh.ece.ubc.ca # install-hwe for newer
kernel

You can run SERVER-SIDE/bin/fai-pxe from your Git work directory, or you can
run /usr/local/sbin/fai-pxe on the FAI server.  If you are not running fai-pxe
on an FAI server, the command will automatically execute on the server via
SSH.

If you run the copy of fai-pxe in your Git work directory, then the generated
PXE configuration will point to your Git work directory's current branch by
default.  More accurately, the FAI client will checkout the configuration in
the remote repository and switch to the remote branch that corresponds to your
current local branch.  The FAI client fetches the configuration from the Git
server, therefore you must remember to `git push` your local commits to the
remote repository.

If you run /usr/local/sbin/fai-pxe on the FAI server, then the master branch
of the remote repository will be used by default.

You can specify a specific Git tag, branch, or commit to use for the
configuration by using the -r option to fai-pxe.


Run FAI dirinstall
==================

FAI can also be used to install to an existing directory or filesystem of an
already working machine.  This can be used to perform an operating system
upgrade with minimal disruption: the OS installation happens in the background,
and when it is complete, just a reboot is necessary.

First, ensure that the target filesystem is mounted.  (On physical machines
that have sufficiently large disks, we create partitions and mount them at
/altroot for this purpose.)  There also needs to be an appropriate
/etc/fai/fai.conf file to tell FAI where to look for the server and
configuration files.  (ECE's CFengine manages fai.conf.)

    1 $ tmux
    2 $ mount -t tmpfs -o size=100M tmpfs /var/lib/fai/config
    3 $ /usr/sbin/fai dirinstall -N /altroot

The use of tmux is recommended, especially if logged in remotely, so that the
installation will not be interrupted if the network session is dropped.

This dirinstall technique can also be used to populate an OpenVZ container.


FAI on a Macintosh
==================

Macintosh computers do not support PXE protocol; they use their own Boot
Server Discovery Protocol (BSDP) instead.  Although it is possible to
configure a DHCP server to support the BSDP extensions to DHCP, it is unclear
if it is possible to package a Linux kernel in a way that it can be booted
using BSDP.

You can boot from one of two kinds of ISO or USB images to run FAI:

a) An image containing the FAI NFS root, generated by fai-cd (see
   SERVER-SIDE/nfsroots/Makefile)

b) An image containing an EFI build of iPXE, which can then perform PXE
   booting

# vim: tw=78:
